team_name: Protea
team_members: 'Craig J. McGowan (contact), Alysse J. Kowalski'
model_name: Dynamic Harmonic Model with ARIMA errors
model_abbr: Springbok
anonymity: named
data_source1: ilinet
data_source2: google trends
data_source3: who-nrevss lab data
this_model_is_an_ensemble: FALSE
methods: >-
  A dynamic harmonic regression model is fit separately for each region in 
  sequential steps, with Fourier terms to capture seasonality and multiple
  possible covariates. At each sequential step, cross-validated models are fit 
  using each of the seasons from 2010/2011 through 2017/2018 and scored using 
  CDC scoring rules. First, either a log or Box Cox transformation (from the 
  BoxCox.lambda function in the forecast package for R) is selected for each 
  region. Second, the number of Fourier terms (ranging from 1 to 12) is
  selected. The non-seasonal ARIMA structure of the error terms is selected
  third, and potential covariates are tested for inclusion last. Covariates
  include influenza virus subtype cumulative percentage, national Google Trends
  data, regional Google Trends data (using the most populous state in a given
  HHS region), and previously observed ILINet backfill, along with combinations
  of those covariates. Final CV model scores were examined and the top
  performing model structure was chosen for each location. Forecasts are
  simulated from iterating one-step-ahead preditions for the remainder of the
  season, and the occurence of seasonal targets is calculated from these
  predictions. Predicted probabilities are calculated from the observed values
  across multiple simulations. For making prospective predictions, models were
  fit using only data from prior seasons, and forecasts were made using data
  that would have been available at the time of the forecast. In the case of
  covariates, predicted values of the covariates based on prior data were used
  to generate forecasts. For Google Trends data, no information on backfill is
  available and the data are assumed to be free of backfill. For influenza
  subtypes, no information on backfill is available, so we use cumulative
  percentages of each influenza subtype up to a given week in  the season, which
  is less susceptible to backfill effects than weekly measures.  All code used
  in estimation and prediction is available at 
  https://github.com/craigjmcgowan/FluForecast
